link:
astra.datastax.com

https://docs.gradient.ai/docs/introduction

- large language model
    a large language model is a type of machine learning
      that is trained on vast amounts of textual data to 
        understand and generate human-like language. it
          is typically based on deep learning architectures,
            such as transformers, and can perform various
              natural language processing tasks, including
                text generation, language translation, and 
                  question answering.

- llamaindex
    formerly known as gpt index, is a data framework for
      large language model, which provide tools to 
        ingest, structure, and access private or domain
          specific data.

    flowchat of how llamaindex works
      documents->index->retriever->query engine->
        final response

    you have documents like pdfs, word files and text files,
      all of that is converted into something called as an
        an index, this index is stored into a vector database,
          once a query arrives, there is a retriever that
            retrieves relevant nodes based on the query, the
              the query engine then decides which particular
                index to display and then you have the final
                  response. 

- llama2
    an auto-regressive language model
      first release, july 18, 2023, in partnership with
        Microsoft, Meta and Open-source Large Language models.
          llama2 pretrained models are trained on 2 trillion
            tokens, and have double the context length than 
              llama1. three model sizes were trained: 7,13,70 
                billion parameters. llama2 is available for 
                  free for research and commercial use.

- apache cassandra

- gradient
    gradient makes it very easy for you to personalize and build
      on top of the open source llms through a simple fine tuning 
        and inference web API.
    various open source models which are available like Bloom 560,
      Lama 2 code,
    various embedding models
    gradient also has integration with Lang chain and Lama index.

- vector database
    a vector database is a type of database designed to efficiently
      store, manage, and retrieve vector data. in the context of 
        machine learning and data analytics, vectors are often used
          used to represent numerical features or embeddings. vector
            databases are optimized for handling vector-based data
              structures, enabling fast and effective operations such
                as similarity searches, nearest neighbor queries, and 
                  other tasks commonly associated with vector spaces.
    
    
